==FunPred-1: Protein Function Prediction from Protein Interaction Network Using Neighborhood Analysis==

===Sovan Saha ^1^, Piyali Chatterjee ^2^, Subhadip Basu ^3^, Mahantapas Kundu ^3^, Mita Nasipuri ^3^===

^1^ Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Dr. Sudhir Chandra Sur Degree Engineering College, Dumdum, Kolkata-700 074, India

^2^ Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Netaji Subhash Engineering College,Garia, Kolkata – 700152, India

^3^ Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Jadavpur University, Kolkata – 700032, India


*ABSTRACT:*
Proteins are responsible for all biological activities in a living object. With the advent of genome sequencing projects for different organisms, large amounts of DNA and protein sequence data are now available, whereas their biological functions are still un-annotated in most of the cases. Unknown function of such an un-annotated protein may be derived from its neighbors in a protein interaction network. Two new methods are proposed in this work to predict protein functions from the network neighborhood properties. The first method, FunPred 1.1, uses a combination of three simple-yet-effective scoring techniques: neighborhood ratio, proteins’ path connectivity and relative functional similarity. FunPred 1.2 applies a heuristic approach using edge clustering coefficient to reduce the search space by identifying densely connected neighborhood regions. The overall accuracy achieved in FunPred 1.2 over 8 functional groups involving hetero-interactions in 650 Yeast proteins is around 87%, which is higher than FunPred 1.1 and many of the state-of-the-art protein function prediction methods available in literature. The train-test datasets and the complete source code of the developed software are now freely available at http://code.google.com/p/cmater-bioinfo/.

[https://www.dropbox.com/sh/jvtqanwl887r8rq/AABIQ2HtCMe3PQv3h2YvR4Iea Supplementary Files]
[https://www.dropbox.com/sh/pwur5qlabaspp65/AAD5CXAyfjs4VqdlxMPe0EUea FunPred-1 Source ]

*Citation:*
Under revision at Cellular and Molecular Biology Letters: CMBL.